---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: The Allure of Software Engineering
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2020-01-22
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Interests
---

Software engineering is a broad field that allows a person to both dabble in various types of fields or specialize in a particular area. This flexibility is what makes me interested in software engineering. Along with flexibility, software engineering also builds effective problem solving skills and communication skills. These are the skills I wish to develop in the future, alongside experiencing new approaches and problems in software engineering to better prepare for future situations.
    
Since software engineering involves creating computer software, there is a good chance that each software that is worked on ends up being different from each other. At the same time, a person may be asked to create a series of software that all revolve around the same concept. This wide range of work is enticing, and the possibility of being able to hop around different types of software is the most interesting part to me. On top of all this, I am interested in learning at least a little bit of every branch of computer science, and software engineering is one branch that has caught my attention more, especially the web development side of it. Software engineering can also aid in building certain skills.
    
Problem solving skills and communication are two areas that I wish to develop in the future. By nurturing my problem solving skills, I can improve my logic and critical thinking, which will help me solve more challenging problems with more ease. As I encounter more and more different problems in the future, I will learn many different approaches to take for problems, so I have more options to consider when attempting to solve any problem. Communication is also key when developing anything for a client, as satisfying the client’s requests is the number one priority most of the time. However, communication between the developer and client has to be efficient, so no request or restrictions are lost. WIth developed communication skills, this makes finding out what the client wants easier, and may save any frustrations that arise from miscommunication.
    
Flexibility, problem solving skills, and communication are key things in software engineering that interest me, and developing all of these skills are important to me and the future of my career. These things are what interest me, and what skills I wish to develop in regards to software engineering.

